## DocLayNet:ALarge Human-Annotated Datasetfor Document-LayoutAnalysis

Birgit Pfitzmann BMResearch RueschllkonSwitzerland bpf@zurich.ibm.com

AhmedS.Nassar IBMResearch Rueschlikon, Switzerland ahn@zurich.ibm.com

## ABSTRACT

Accurate document layout analysis is a key requirement for highquality PDF document conversion. With the recent availability od public, large ground-truth datasets such as PubLayNet and DocBank deep-learning models have proven to be very effective at layouf detection and segmentation. While these datasets are of adequate size to train such models, they severely lack in layout variability since they are sourced from scientific article repositories such as PubMed and arXiv only. Consequently, the accuracy of the layout segmentation drops significantly when these models are applied on more challenging and diverse layouts. In this paper, we present DocLayNet, a new, publicly available, document-layout annotation dataset in COco format. It contains Soss3 manually annotated pages from diverse data sources to represent a wide variability in layouts. For each PDF page, the layout annotations provide labelled bounding-boxes with a choice of 11 distinct classes. DocLayNef also provides a subset of double- and triple-annotated pages to determine the inter-annotator agreement. In multiple experiments, we provide baseline accuracy scores (in mAP) for a set of popular object detection models. We also demonstrate that these models fall approximately 10% behind the inter-annotator agreement. Furthermore, we provide evidence that DocLayNet is of sufficient size Lastly, we compare models trained on PubLayNet, DocBank and DocLayNet, showing that layout predictions of the DocLayNettrained models are more robust and thus the preferred choice for general-purpose document-layout analysis

## CCS CONCEPTS

-Informationsystems→Documentstructure;Appliedcomputing → Document analysis, - Computing methodologies → Machine learning Computer vision; Object detection

Peemissiom to make digital or hard copies of part er all of this woek foe personal or classuoom use Is granted without fee prowided that copies are not made or distrnutee tor protit oe commercial advantage and that oopies bear this notice and the tull citation on the tirst page. Copyrights foe thind-party oemponents of this work mist be honored Foraocherusescomtacttheowre/authors

KDD 22 Aueaat 24, 2022, Washimgton, DC USA

2122 Copyrirht held by the auner/autheefs)

7@01.8r/10.1145/35346783539043

Michele Dolfi IBMResearch Rueschlikon, Switzerland dol@zurich.ibm.com

Christoph Auer BMResearch Rueschlikon, Switzerland cau@zurich.ibmcom

PeterStaar IBMResearch Rueschlikon,Switzerland taa@zurich.ibm.com

<!-- image -->

Figure 1: Four examples of complex page layouts across dif ferent document categories

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

## KEYWORDS

PDF document conversion, layout segmentation, object-detection, data set, Machine Learning

## ACMRefereneeFormat:

Birgit Pfitzmann, Christoph Auer, Michele Dolfi, Ahmed S. Nassar, and Peter Staar. 2022. DocLayNet: A Large Human-Annotated Dataset for Documen Layout Analysis. In Proceedings of the 28th ACAd SIGKDD Conference on Ksowledge Discovery &amp;td Date Adining (KDD 'z2), Augast J41&amp;, 2022, wasi ingtow, DC, U/SA. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 9 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/ 353467.3539043
